what is up everybody welcome to another
edition of AMA live I'm your host Tom
bill you and I'm here to answer your
questions I hope that you guys have a
lot of them today I want to dive in on
this magically delicious Friday and by
the way today's episode is brought to
you by a brand new shirt which is no
luck needed now oddly enough I can't
believe it but this shirt has become
mildly controversial which is utterly
startling to me
but nonetheless while it is
unquestionable that good luck can befall
you that bad luck can befall you that if
that's where you're focused boys and
girls you're in real trouble so I will
say to focus on the fact that you don't
need luck is a very smart place to start
because if you're counting on it if
that's part of your bet if that's part
of your life strategy you're really in
trouble so as they say the more you
prepare the luckier you get which is
another way of saying that it's about
being prepared so no luck needed I'm
sticking by it there it is if you want
to get yours you can click the link in
the description in both Facebook and
YouTube alright without further ado the
first question comes from Adam gray this
is via the connect inbox you say that
the way you think about yourself and
talk to yourself is important but what
advice do you have when the way you talk
or think can mainly be negative what
advice do you have to change from a
negative to a positive mindset what
things should you practice and learn
okay so first and foremost the thing you
should be practicing and learning is how
to flip that impulse that you have to
think something negative into something
positive so you're gonna use the
negativity as a habit loop trigger to
think something positive so you're gonna
want to have those positive things about
yourself that you want to reinforce
ready so that you're not trying to think
of something positive as soon as you
detect that negative thought you've got
your positive affirmations as terrible
as that sounds ready to go so the
25-point bullet belief system that you
can download at impact Theory calm is a
great place to start many of the 25 are
things you can literally just repeat to
yourself and I find those to be super
empowering in my own life so
I highly encourage you guys to get those
commits the ones that are meant to be
said like that to yourself to memories
so that there they are there for you
when you need them and then the key
thing that lets me off the hook the
reason that I don't over invest in my
negative thoughts is because I know that
while those negative thoughts serve me
up to a point because they're gonna make
me aware of something that I might not
otherwise be aware of so I'm not trying
to crush them down to zero I'm trying to
use them as that flip but I do want to
look at them first I want to look and
see what's really there if I'm pointing
out something that really is a weakness
that I can shore up and then from there
I use that as that jujitsu flip to get
into the positive side of things and
knowing that doing and believing what
moves me towards my goals is the most
effective thing allows me to like I said
let myself off the hook to not need to
get into that loop of negativity all
right next question is from our boy seem
land
what is up seem this is from Facebook
Tom when I was at the impact Theory
house indeed you were I saw only highly
motivated and efficient people how did
you go about creating a team of
linchpins and how did you persuade them
to come work for you when all of them
could be doing their own thing this is
an incredibly difficult thing to do so I
will say this very clumsily by stumbling
into it by losing a lot of people along
the way to my bad leadership having to
figure out how to build a team because
most of the team here actually started
at Quest and I'll say that just over
half so it's about 55% actually now that
we've expanded but the original team was
entirely people that came with Lisa and
I from quest and so they had seen how we
work they'd seen how I think they'd been
around it for a while and I'll use a
great example Cindy who I know is
listening right now that girl is hard
core so in the beginning I was because I
had so many employees I did not have
time nor was I thinking about leadership
and management most importantly the way
that I think about it now so I was just
we blunt and really direct which was
brutally difficult for her in the
beginning but because she is a survivor
type because she just kept growing and
learning and pushing and striving to get
better by the time that we came to
impact theory she was just on another
level so that is partly why because what
you're seeing are the people that
survived and when you start from a
survivorship bias of looking at the
people who made it through it's very
tempting to say that you did a whole lot
of things right but I will say more than
I did anything right these were the
people that were able to survive just
how bull in a china shop I was and so
that gets you a certain level of
hardiness which is amazing so that's
part of it now the part that may be way
more useful for you I will say Reid
principles by Ray Dalio understanding
that setting a very high standard is
critical then living up to that standard
yourself by always setting the example
and a big thing for me and this this is
not I don't I don't think he said this I
don't remember him saying this but this
is definitely something that I believe
in you need to outwork everyone in your
team you just you need to make it
abundantly clear that you're never going
to ask them to do something that you
wouldn't that you're gonna be the first
one at work you're gonna be the last one
going after it that you're just going to
go way harder than you expect them to go
and hopefully you're able to get them
excited that you're able to make it
abundantly clear that in this company
growth is what we're looking for that
we're not looking to beat people up for
making mistakes mistakes for
opportunities to learn so taking from
Ray Dalio Zook we have a thing called an
error log that people put in things
mistakes that they made and the point of
the error log is not to be people up or
be punitive it is to make abundantly
clear that a we don't tolerate hiding
mistakes and then B we all want to learn
from mistakes so hiding a mistake at
impact theory is just a cardinal offence
but learning from it is incredibly
powerful and we want to foster that in
the environment so if you set a
ridiculously high bar you yourself are
doing everything in your power to live
up to that when you don't live up to
that you certainly entered in the air'
log you don't hide it from people you
let them know exactly what's going on
when they see that they're inspired
by what you're doing and perhaps most
importantly they believe in what you're
doing they believe in what you stand for
they understand the mission of the
company and they want to contribute to
that in a meaningful way and then they
feel that they're they have the ability
to express and find their purpose
through that they have real meaning to
the company and then I don't think it is
unimportant that we also offer ownership
in the company to every full-time
employee and we offer profit share to
every full-time employee so there you
have it all right next up Andrew Kirby
YouTube do you believe in self
punishment and if yes why I believe in
this ferociously this is advanced class
[__] and I know that most people are
gonna have a seizure when they hear me
say this but if you don't learn how to
effectively not destructively because
that's where most people go they get
into an endless loop of self punishment
which is totally ineffective but if you
don't learn to punish yourself you will
never get where you want to go now that
needs to pale in comparison to the
amount of time that you reward yourself
they need to earn that reward if you're
just lavishing yourself with emotional
praise and you haven't done anything
then I think that that will cheapen it
it will ultimately mean nothing and
quite frankly I don't think you can
really been boozled yourself I don't
think if you try to praise yourself for
stupid [__] I think some part of you
knows you haven't done anything to
deserve that praise but when you set a
bar and you meet that or exceed that to
then tell yourself hey you did it you
said you were gonna do it you did it and
that is worthy of praise and getting
good at praising yourself is incredibly
important and I think that most people
have a very hard time doing both most
people don't know how to effectively
praise themselves they don't know how to
get themselves first of all to do things
that are praiseworthy and then when they
do they don't take the time to
emotionally reward themselves meaning
you actually to feel it it can't just be
intellectual you've got to actually feel
that
and the same with punishment if you say
you're gonna do something even if
nobody's watching and you don't do it
then you need to emotionally punish
yourself none of you will ever know
whether I actually get out of bed in ten
minutes or less or not but I say I do
all the time
but every time I miss it even if I miss
it by seconds I just gave myself the
chills even if I miss it by seconds I
will punish myself for that because I
said I was gonna do it and I didn't do
it so the fact that nobody's watching is
utterly irrelevant to me it has
everything to do with myself now the
reason that this is important the reason
that I think that people need to do this
is because that's how you shape your
behavior so like water over time can
create create the Grand Canyon or you
can take a polishing rock and shape
stones you can shape your personality
you can certainly shape your identity
and shape your behaviors if you learn
how to reward and punish yourself I know
a lot of people don't want to hear that
that is the truth of the human condition
next question Donna M Southwood Facebook
hey Tom
please share with us your meditation
method I want to incorporate a
meditation practice into my morning but
can't find a method that works for me
all right here it goes I stole it from a
Navy SEAL
he calls it boxed breathing and I have
modified it slightly and the reason that
I modified it slightly is I found that
the way that he was doing it which is a
breath in for parts all an equal time so
you do an inhale you do an inhale hold
you do an exhale and you do an exhale
hold and all four sides of the box are
equal in length now I found that that
was dis pleasurable unpleasurable I
didn't like it it made me feel like I
was out of breath and it was super weird
but I felt like well if I modified it
because the concept of it was so
beautiful in its simplicity that I
thought well if I modified just slightly
[__] I don't feel out of breath
would that work and I found that that
worked powerfully and I went from
feeling like I was out of breath totally
unbalanced like this is [__] weird to
all the sudden I do a relatively long
inhale hold or inhale excuse me a
relatively short inhale hold the most
rapid exhale I can do I literally just
let the oxygen out and then I do a very
elongated hold on the exhale I don't
know why but I find that intensely
pleasurable and so what I started doing
was just trying to maximize the pleasure
of each part of the breath cycle now the
important part here is that you breathe
from your diaphragm this is the single
most important part of my meditative
practice breathing from my diaphragm
breathing from your diaphragm triggers
the parasympathetic nervous system so
you've got the sympathetic nervous
system and the parasympathetic nervous
system and they exist in what's called a
negative feedback loop it's like a
seesaw so one side cannot be up without
the other side going down
so as you diaphragm breathe like I just
did you will click yourself out of the
sympathetic nervous system which is
known as fight-or-flight and into the
parasympathetic nervous system which is
known as rest and digest
so that seesaw mechanism is really the
powerful part of meditating and I have
found in the absolute worst times of my
life
meditation can get me back to zero every
single time meaning I have absolutely no
physiological remnants of stress or
anxiety it is so amazing and so powerful
that I only wish that I'd started doing
it years earlier and it was mark Devine
the Navy SEAL that I was talking about
before that helped me realize because I
thought of it as very weak and
effeminate which growing up feeling like
a weak effeminate kid getting tough and
getting stronger has been a huge part of
my journey so I didn't want to do
anything that I felt was moving me
backwards now he was one that slapped me
around and was like look it just makes
sense it's getting you out of that
sympathetic and into the parasympathetic
and so I thought well if it's good
enough for a Navy SEAL then it's good
enough for me I tried it and it was
life-changing and there have been times
in my life since I started meditating
honestly don't know how I would have
made it through if I didn't have
meditation because that ability to get
back to equilibrium to zero with what I
call no background radio
it's so powerful so meditation has
become a huge way for me to manage
anxiety which is really really powerful
so there it is and I will do one quick
cycle so you can see how deadly simple
it is I normally sit cross-legged so
take that for what it's worth but I'll
do it just normally seat it now I do it
with my eyes closed and I breathe in
through my nose out through my mouth and
it looks like this
hey hey hey there it is all right nice
and easy
I did the second part of the cycle so
you could see how long that I usually
end up holding that exhale hold again I
just do it until it's not pleasurable
anymore I don't feel like I'm holding my
breath it literally just feels like an
exhale and it's so weird even in that
short cycle I almost forgot I was doing
an AMA that's how powerful meditation
has become for me I I get lost so
rapidly if I'd had this is the last
thing I do when I meditate I put
headphones on over the year headphones
and I listen to the call map I do not do
guided meditation some people love it I
absolutely hate it and I listen to the
sounds of nature and I find that
insanely powerful and if I had had my
headphones on I do fear that I actually
would have forgotten I was doing this
but that's how quickly you can with
practice and I've been doing it now for
about three years with practice you can
get into a super chill state okay
Lindsay shoots what kinds of things do
you tell yourself when emotions are
trying to overpower logic objectivity
well it depends on the scenario but
generally the thing that I go to over
and over and over and over and over is
that I can learn anything so I may not
know it now I may suck at it now I may
have just embarrassed myself now but now
doesn't matter I'm going to judge myself
to the lens of a lifetime not to the
lens of a moment I can get good at this
thing that all things fall to practice
discipline perseverance grit everything
no matter what it is you want to do all
of those things will fall to that if you
put enough time and energy into growing
learning developing being willing to
look at your weaknesses your
inadequacies your failures that is the
source of power so all of these things
that I'm externalizing right now they
are the things that I repeat to myself
and for me even more than it's a process
of repeating something it's a mechanism
of taking action and I find nothing
remedies insecurity faster than action
going out and learning picking up that
book going and watching that YouTube
do whatever it is that you told yourself
hey and get better at this thing
actually going and getting better at
that thing first of all you get lost in
the act of learning and then second of
all you see whoa I actually a.m.
excuse me I am getting better at this
and as you're getting better at that
thing that's going to reduce all of that
worry and negative thinking and all of
that so believing that you can get good
to me is the only belief that matters
the most important thing that you could
do with your time right now if you don't
already is to spend time showing
yourself that you can get good at
anything and even if you can't do it
with yourself yet prove to yourself that
the human-animal can get good at
anything and to do that you need only
look at the laundry list of people who
were like I was a total bozo when I was
a child and then I went on to do this
because people's natural inclination is
to dismiss extraordinary people
extraordinary talents extraordinary
accomplishments by saying erroneously
they were born extraordinary
so as the great Lisa Nichols once said
you don't get to make me extraordinary
as a way of letting yourself off the
hook and I love that and I think that
that should apply to everybody don't
make anyone else extraordinary not
Beethoven not da Vinci nobody as a way
of not having to live up to that
standard first of all read da Vinci's
biography it's in saying how much work
energy and effort that guy put into
getting good at painting it's it's pure
insanity so same thing with somebody
like Mozart who everybody said I mean by
the time he was 12 he was a genius and
he was playing for everybody yes because
his dad not only happened to be a piano
teacher happened to be a piano teacher
that specialized in teaching kids so he
started playing at the age of two so by
the time he's 12 he's got his 10,000
hours but he didn't start writing
original music until he was late into
his teens and early 20s by which time
he'd been playing for almost 20 years so
focus not on people being born
extraordinary which
honestly it's totally irrelevant there's
the world is inundated with people that
have talent and do nothing with it on
the other hand if you focus on the fact
that the human animal is designed from
the ground up to be the ultimate
adaptation machine that's where I think
people begin to flourish absolutely up
you're sure wow we're pretty high all
right Hector Salazar Facebook any advice
for somebody who is taking steps to make
a positive change but he is getting all
kinds of negative consequences for bad
decisions he took in the past I really
wish you were in the room so that I
could pin you down and figure out
exactly what you're asking so you're
taking steps to make positive change
which makes all the sense in the world
do you feel that it's the steps to make
positive change that are somehow tied to
the negative consequences that I don't
really understand so if you make a bad
decision there are going to be negative
consequences that's true not only for
the past but for the present and for the
future
every time you [__] up it's a [__]
because something bad happens
so you just can't get caught up in that
so stop looking at any one thing acutely
and start looking at over a very long
period of time could I do something now
let's say that the negative consequences
are actually reputation damage so as you
try to claw your way out of the hole
people just keep piling dirt on you
piling dirt on you telling you you're a
bad person that this failure of yours in
the past this wrongdoing this horrible
thing that you did means forever you
should be punished that is a much more
difficult hole to get out of and I will
say I'm probably not the person to ask
advice for that I'll give you my logic
but I will also point you at I'm gonna
remember her name Monica Lewinsky who
did a TED talk if I'm not mistaken for
those of you who don't know Monica
Lewinsky she had an affair with then
seated President Bill Clinton and she
said that that the way that people
shamed her for that has really haunted
her and
she probably has some incredibly
powerful advice on that I can't remember
it super clearly they say you don't
remember what people say or what they do
but you remember how they made you feel
and I remember reading that or watching
that video I can't remember even how I
experienced it but the way that it made
me feel was like whoa this woman has
amazingly powerful insights into this so
I will say go check that out makes me
want to go rewatch reread now here's my
logic on that at some point in fact I'll
just quote Lao Tzu the guy that wrote
the Dao de Jing
he said if you worry about whether other
people think about you you will always
be their prisoner so unless you're
prepared to be other people's prisoners
at some point if they are hurling dirt
on you if they're constantly trying to
Ribery you under the earth that you're
trying to claw your way out from then
you're never gonna get out you've got to
just stop worrying about what they think
so they can't actually affect you they
can only try to influence your mindset
so and even even now if people hate you
slings and arrows you could get a job
digitally you could go be a freelancer
on up work or whatever people don't even
have to know who you are so truly in
today's world they are not gonna be able
to stop you from getting a job but they
can really mess with your head but only
if you let them so I will say to that do
not let them you've got to understand
who you're trying to become believe in
your ability to get there to become that
person to understand that to continue to
beat yourself up for something in the
past is not going to serve you and so
for that very reason let it go and if
you can and need to make atonement if
there's something that's haunting you
internally so atone for it
all right next up Curtis had zicke
YouTube how do you operate with the
mentality to be the hardest worker in
the room while still empowering your
team to be the best at their position
this comes down to holding a standard
setting a standard holding everyone to
it as well as just going all-out for
your own thing and when you're not
afraid to be criticized by other people
then suddenly it's not damaging to
criticize other people so let me tell
you right now nickolas are in
if he sees me doing something that he
doesn't think it here's to the ethos of
impact theory or he sees me doing
something that isn't as efficient as it
could be or has any advice for me
whatsoever I want to hear it I will not
shut him down I'm not gonna glare at him
for bringing it up nothing
you've got to foster an environment
where criticisms can come from any
direction any level of the hierarchy
anywhere anywhere and if you fail to do
that then the organization is going to
crumble but if you actually are willing
to take criticism from anybody
regardless of position then suddenly you
can hold people you can push them you
can point out when they're doing
something that isn't held to that
standard without creating that
resentment without creating that
bitterness that's the key all right
Saab sourabh sourabh chadov SAR objetive
we're going with that hey Tom can you
please speak about your visualization
process how do you go about doing it I
am absolutely horrible at visualizing I
don't know what it is I actually
consider myself a hyper visual person I
really enjoy and really respond to art
movies just imagery but for whatever
reason closing my eyes and imagining
something one of two things happens
either I actually have a really hard
time creating a concrete image of it or
- I'll imagine it going wrong this was
something that haunted me as a kid in
Tacoma there's ditches along the sides
of the road which don't really exist in
LA but in Tacoma they're everywhere and
I used to imagine in my little head
because I was obsessed with a movie
called rad that I was riding a bike
along the ditches and every time you get
to a driveway I would imagine myself on
that bike doing a backflip now every
single [__] time I imagine that the
person crashed even as a kid I was like
what is this this I still don't
understand that is so weird to me
so in visualizing things for whatever
reason this may be unique to me or
entirely in
I have no idea but I don't find that
very powerful narrating on the other
hand describing it in my mind the crowd
welcomes me they want to hear what I
have to say I rock the talk everyone at
the end stands up cheering that's the
kind of thing that I do literally that
would be what's playing in my mind but
I'm using the words and so the
visualization that goes along with the
words is they're sort of vaguely in the
background but the thing that I'm really
focusing on are the words so there it is
Cody Montgomery Facebook what would you
say to someone who has a ridiculous fear
of failure and fear of rejection this is
what just popped into my head and I
would say go get really [__] good at
something I'm gonna guess that you just
don't have the confidence that's born of
competence so if you go spend the time
don't worry about whether anybody thinks
you're cool or anything for like the
next 10 years and just focus on learning
something and becoming extraordinary at
something that you really care about put
your head down fall in love with the
work fall in love the process of getting
better if you do that I think you will
find that your fear of rejection goes
away over time so because the only real
answer to stop fearing that is either to
recognize there's power in it if you're
willing to learn from it
but no one wants to stay in that mode
forever so hiding in that is still the
sense of I can one day get out of this I
can one day transcend that which is
going to require you to getting good at
something
so whatever it is that you're you know
forcing yourself to realize oh this
failure is actually gonna teach me
something it actually has to teach you
something and you actually have to get
better at something so the ultimate goal
here when I really think about it is
you've got to get good at something
go get good at something that you really
care about and I think that even as you
begin to take steps down that it's not
gonna be binary you're not gonna be
afraid and fearful for 10 years it's
going to begin immediately reducing in
its severity and intensity so that's my
advice all right Fahad Salaria how do i
enhance my dark side so I can use it to
reach higher levels of my crown
okay so like you can decide to look at
the beautiful things the things you're
grateful for the things you're trying to
bring to this world that are gonna be
incredible that are gonna help people
buoy them uplift their spirit you can
also focus on the things that you're
[__] up the people that want ill for
you the people that don't think you can
do it and you can place that firmly on
your shoulder that ship and think about
those people in a very limited amount of
time because if you spend a lot of time
there becomes corrosive it will hold you
back will actually stop you from
succeeding your life will be filled with
bitterness and to have the energy that
you need you're going to need joy
excitement okay those are gonna be the
things that carry you through but there
is a neurological principle at work here
if you want someone to be able to endure
more pain you need only let them express
rage and anger so I don't know why we're
wired that way but we are wired that way
and if in very acute moments you're not
able to lean on [__] you I will not be
held back I will prove you wrong I am
going to do this no one can tell me I
can't not myself not anyone else and you
embody that rage in that anger then in
acute moments where you need it and the
beauty is not enough to get you through
you'll have what you need but it comes
down to thinking about it obsessing over
it in acute periods so take the time to
think about it the people that want you
to fail all of that push yourself let it
kick you in the ass let it hurt think
about the times you failed think about
the times you embarrass yourself think
about the times that people late hate on
you and then refuse to buckle under that
aaron reeves hi Tom I'm currently
reading relentless by Tim Grover and it
is incredible what is your advice for
getting more aggressive in your goal in
your gold chasing when I'm naturally
easygoing and relaxed well it looks like
basically what I just ran people through
but
I'll take a different tact here just to
give some additional information
I think the plague the scourge of modern
times things come easily
and because of that nobody has to learn
how to want nobody has to learn how to
take that want and then turn it into a
crushing need nobody knows how to take
an ember create a fire and then a raging
inferno people don't know how to do that
they don't realize it's a process they
think there's something hiding within
themselves that they need only excavate
and then finally they'll have the energy
to see things through but it doesn't
work like that the way that it actually
works is you've got to learn to build
that fire you've got to learn to create
that want and then that need and then
let it become an obsession once you are
obsessed and you must get that thing you
want then you'll actually get it but if
you don't know how to build that kind of
crazy burning need in yourself you're
just never gonna do it you're not gonna
have the energy to do it now keep in
mind you don't have to want something
like that it's not a moral imperative we
live in an amazing time of abundance so
if you just want to relax and chill by
all means take that path I'm no longer
the person you should take any advice
from but if that's the path that you
want absolutely and many people that is
what they want but on the other hand if
you want to play in a world stage if you
want to see just how much potential you
can wring out of yourself then that's
the path you're gonna have to walk to
learn to create that burning need Vinay
palak Shah hey Tom I have been a failure
all through my life what I what do I
have to do to restart my life and be
successful so here's the great news you
don't have to restart your life so it's
gonna be a building process and just
right now you're gonna start building
something new so decide what it is that
you want and then identify the steps you
need to take in order to get there so
whatever it is your particular failure
going to need to identify
failure of what you want versus what
you've gotten so in fact I just read
something on Mel Robbins page say that I
thought was ingenious and it said
congratulations you've survived 100% of
the worst moments in your life I thought
you know what that's actually really
true
so looking at your life as a failure you
need to flip it man like what how to use
Tony's words Tony Robbins how's the
worst thing that ever happened to you
actually the best like what have you
learned from it what are the things you
look at currently as failures that you
could flip and begin to look at as
empowering lessons things you've learned
from that while hurtful you're glad you
went through them because it gave you
something a piece of knowledge an
internal fortitude whatever it is that
you are going to need in order to move
forward and build this new thing that
you want to build so that's step one
just reframing all of that to making you
the person that you are now which is the
kind of person of it ask that kind of
question which has enough self-awareness
to actually build on like you've got a
lot going for you a lot more than you
think but you're framing your life is a
failure and in framing your life as a
failure
you will continue to see only failure in
your life so step number one flip that
step number two goal get a goal a very
specific goal identify the steps model
yourself after somebody walk that path
and along the way make adjustments to
make sure that it fits your life there
it is Charles Rowe face book what's up
Tom I'm curious how you take lessons
you've learned from books and then not
only remember them but implement them in
your life I try to use them immediately
that is my secret
that when I read something that's
incredibly powerful I want to talk to
people about it I want to put it into
use I bring it up to you guys I talk
about it in a maze-like the thing that I
just talked about from Mel Robbins write
reinforcing it in my mind so when I from
Mark Devine when I learned about
meditating I didn't wait a month or six
weeks I did it that day so taking
immediate action is the key when you do
something that those are the things
you're gonna remember but you've got to
do them so take action dr. Jack Callahan
YouTube do you have any advice for
feeling unproductive and unsatisfied
despite seeing more results ooh yes I do
all right dr. Callahan here's the
problem if you're working your ass off
and getting results and your motivation
is going down you're chasing the wrong
thing plain and simple so find something
that intrigues you then engage with it
then in that process see if it turns
into a real fascination meaning it's
giving you more energy than it's taking
that just doing it being around it is
fun it's enjoyable the harder you work
the more rewarding it feels the very
thing that you're asking is part of the
process of finding the right thing to
pursue because the right thing to pursue
is something that gives you that energy
that makes you feel alive finding that
thing like this is something that I find
man I don't know what happened if if we
just in fact I know exactly what [__]
happen because this is exactly what
happened to me and what I lost years and
years and years and years and years of
my life - I was not careful how I
defined success and like a fool I define
success as money and so I chased money
and in chasing money I gave myself over
to it completely and I chased it and I
chased it and I chased it and I took
immeasurable amounts of pride and being
able to suffer and endure and push far
past what anybody else was willing to do
for something that was eroding me and
hollowing me out now my willingness and
ability to suffer is one of my most
powerful traits but when I let that
distract me from the fact that I was
being robbed of energy that I was being
robbed of my sense of self-worth my
feeling of being alive that became a
real problem so you need to be very
careful how you define success and I
will say that success is fulfillment
success is brain chemistry it is not
momentary happiness certainly not
entirely it is a deep sense of purpose
and meaning and well-being that
fulfillment technique
the idea that you built this incredible
set of skills that you believed in that
was giving you more energy all along the
way and now it lives in service of other
people so find that thing find that
thing that in interest you engage with
it see if it turns into a fascination if
it turns into a fascination go down the
process of gaining mastery and in that
it either will galvanize into a passion
or it will dissipate but if you follow
that process you can create that thing
in your life that's going to give you
the energy and not take it away Orlando
Ramos from Facebook hey Tom happy Friday
happy Friday right back what has been
the darkest moment you've experienced
since starting impact Theory personal
with the company or both how did you
climb out of that god the honest answer
is really dumb and the honest answer is
when we first started I was having to
deal with the IRS and I hated it so
completely and I was joking about it so
much I don't think people really
understood like how dark that was for me
because I went from quest where I had
all of these resources and it was
amazing and yay and then I come to
impact theory and there were seven of us
and I am a huge believer and do the
things that nobody else wants to do do
the hard things and that was a really
powerful challenge for me and even as I
explain it now I'm reminded of what I
did psychologically to deal with it I
don't spend a lot of time in darkness
like I really want to give you an
amazing answer I don't spend a lot of
time there less than 20% so but that was
the lamest thing that I went through but
yeah man like even when I think about
like horrible [__] that I'm not willing
to share on camera even that stuff I
don't spend a lot of time in the
darkness of it it's powerful in that you
get to see who you really are it's
powerful because you get to see your
belief system at work you get to find
out if it's real like I can tell you the
everything I say on camera I can say
with as much bravado and aggression as I
do because I had been [__] tested and
like I wish I knew her name in the Lord
of the Rings the character who holds the
ring for a minute and she turns into
basically a god only to then hand back
the ring and she in that moment realizes
that she could be as powerful as a god
she could take over the entire world
but instead she gives the ring back she
embraces that humility I was tested to
see if everything I believed about
myself that I teach that I preach if it
was real or not and that's why that was
the the moment that really let me step
out front with aggression so yeah I
don't spend a lot of time in darkness
that's the punchline in fact I have to
take myself there because it can be a
powerful motivator but I don't live
there so I crawled out with the belief
system yeah all right Eric Lanoue
Facebook Tom I love the way I feel on
keto but how would you adapt if someone
whose job in lifestyle requires a lot of
high intensity exercise I think you're
gonna see in the coming years that being
keto adapted is probably far more
effective for people that have to do
really intense long-duration stuff
because you're able to leverage your
body fat for that now where it starts to
break down and we are we are very much
the edge of my understanding here in
terms of where this is gonna play out
but I'll give you my logic this is what
I'm thinking so the early studies right
now seem to indicate that even for fast
twitch stuff that you it's either that
you're able you're using the stuff
that's already stored in your muscle
glycogen or that you're actually able to
get the energy out of your stored fat
fast enough to keep the ATP performing
at the level that it needs to perform
again where we've exceeded my level of
like real knowledge so somebody in the
feed like if they really understand and
can link to like an article or something
be amazing but the stuff that I read
certainly for ultra long distances seems
like it's all leaning towards ketogenic
people performing better the only thing
I'm a little weak on is like what would
it be if it were older like a sprinter
or something like that I don't know if
people have looked into that too much
yet so I'll stop there I don't know
enough to keep going but yes I will be
very intrigued to watch this play out in
the coming years all right
Nicole Paige youtube hey Tom I'm curious
what your thoughts are on quantum
mechanics this is amazing again we're
gonna be way outside my realm of real
understanding but I love talking about
this [__] I know you've spoken about
conflicting thoughts about the law of
attraction but what about the science
based research so I'm gonna say that the
law of attraction is 50% amazing and 50%
total [__] and so I don't think
there is any science-based research on
the total [__] side which is there
like I'm just gonna think and something
is gonna come to me so yeah that that
just like even with quantum mechanics
which is largely about probability which
has nothing to do with essentially
prayer which is where that side of the
law of attraction breaks down which is
like hey I just want it I'm just
thinking about it and therefore it's
gonna happen I don't think that that is
in any way shape or form aligned with
what we know about quantum mechanics
that we don't understand all of quantum
mechanics yet but I'll give you a for
instance I don't think the brain is so
powerful that it can get the what seemed
like right now
random probabilities of not random
probabilities but like just vanishingly
small probabilities of something
happening like me walking through this
wall now at a quantum level from a
quantum probability perspective if I
walked into that wall enough times I
will eventually all of my quanta will
jump at the same time the other side of
the wall it actually will happens like
speaking at a mathematical probability
equation and dr. michio kaku who I just
interviewed I can't wait for you guys to
see that interview dude is [__]
fascinating he said there actually is
a quantifiable probability that all at
once you will teleport to Mars just from
a quantum event perspective that that
actually has a mathematical probability
but he said it takes longer than the
life span of the universe that's about
how I think about that what I'll call
the [__] side of the law of
attraction it it actually there is a
mathematical probability that I could
sit here and think about a pizza and the
boom of pizza will appear in my hands
which would be [__] rad and I really
wish there was a quantum event where I
could eat that pizza without getting fat
but there is a probability a
quantifiable probability of that but I
don't think it has anything to do with
me thinking about it so I don't think
that me thinking about it makes it more
probable I think the laws of physics
gives it a mathematical probability all
right I find that I really want to keep
going on that but I'm gonna stop there
its way interesting I don't know nearly
enough about it but while it's
fascinating Jase Bella ran this is from
YouTube Tom how do I tell the difference
between a falling game a failing a
failing game plan and a game plan that
just hasn't won yet I hate this question
so [__] much and it's gonna be our
last question
do you know why I hate this question
because it's so [__] hard this is
like that secret thing I never wanted
anyone to ask me and you [__]
alright so I'm gonna give you I'm gonna
give you an answer because this this is
so important to figure out okay you've
got to be able to get good at taking
what you know about life watching other
people and what they're doing the
current moment that you're living in and
being able to ask and answer the
question what's the probability if I
execute against this well that I'll
succeed and what's the probability that
I'll be able to figure the changing
sands out as I go and get to the end and
what's the probability that I will have
the energy and effort to keep going and
get to the end and maybe most
importantly do I care enough about this
that even if I'm wrong and I never get
to the end and it is
a failing game plan that I had fun doing
it okay those are the important things
to ask now Brian Johnson who we also
interviewed and his episodes gotta be
dropping soon it hasn't dropped yet
right okay so that dude so fascinating
and he said look if you've been given
the task of programming a robot to cross
a thousand miles of sand dunes rather
than plotting teaching it how to go from
point A to point B far and you know
traverse all the obstacles far better to
teach you how to deal with shifting
sands because that is the only thing
that you can guarantee it's gonna have
to deal with because as soon as it
starts moving the terrain will change
weather will change it everything so
even if you map out the terrain exactly
and teach it how to overcome all those
obstacles the second it starts it
actually influences that so I think that
as we're going that the main thing the
most important thing and I'll get really
concrete because I think about this with
comics all right there's no [__]
money to be made in comics you literally
have everybody going into the world of
comics which is one thing that we're
doing and it's just an incubation thing
to get to the to get to film and TV
right so it's like R&D
okay so if I know that I'm competing for
shelf space in stores with by the way
people at the store level are doing it
as a hobby they don't necessarily care
about making a massive profit so they
aren't even acting like in a normal way
from a pure profit motive perspective
and the companies aren't making the
books from a pure profit motive
perspective it gets really [__] weird
so it's like okay can you be successful
in that like is my plan and my method to
go into comics as an RD to get to film
and TV is that gonna work what do I have
to do and so I look at that and I play
out the scenarios okay scenario one I am
able to at least break even okay this is
how we play out scenario one scenario
two and I guess this is a long way of
saying that because it can be really
hard to tell if you've got a bad game
plan or a game plan that just hasn't
worked yet
I tried to play out the multiple
scenarios so that I can look for
telltale signs of which is which and I
can lean on to another one jump from one
lily pad to the other if you will so
you're constantly running these
probabilities like okay I don't know
enough right now to know so right now I
think that I can crack the nut and
become profitable or break
even or maybe even profitable in the
comic world I'm arrogant enough to
believe that I see and understand
something that other people don't see
and understand but I know how likely it
is that I'm deluding myself so I'm
constantly like checking as I go okay
the six things that I thought we're
gonna make me successful as I do the
first one did it work and if it didn't
work [__] like try the next one if that
doesn't work as well at some point I'm
probably thinking okay that's not the
right lily pad and I need to jump to
something else so I'm moving multiple
things forward right now to give you an
idea so we've got things that are like
okay that rely on the comic world as R&D
and then we've got other strategies over
here that don't rely on that just in
case I'm wrong okay
that's so [__] interesting thank you
for asking that question even though I
hate it because I don't think I have a
super-powerful answer because it's so
like there's nothing anyone could have
printed out off of that other than I
guess always be checking to make sure
that you're right and not delusional
have multiple paths to make sure that
you're going down those are big ones and
then making sure that even if you're
failing that you're having a good time
so that at the end of the day at least
you had fun okay with that I'm gonna
wrap it up thank you for that question
no one's ever forced me to like make
that concrete in my own mind and that's
just the beginning that's something I
should think a lot more about alright
guys thank you so much for joining me
this is always amazing may you work your
asses off this weekend but at things
that you love so get after it enjoy your
weekend remember go pick up the note
look needed shirt right now at impact
theory dot-com you can actually go even
more direct than that shop that impact
Theory calm thank you guys so much for
being a part of this community this
community is [__] amazing I
appreciate you guys more than you know
alright share this video if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]